# BD - 27/01/2021 - NOTES

## Installing Linux Ubuntu

You can do this however you like all you need to do is set up a LinuxVM in any enviroment you feel most comfortable, I first set up a linux VM on my desktop Windows machine, I did this by downloading both the Ubuntu ISO image & VirtualBox. Follow guides online but for a quick start I would suggest creating a virtual machine that utalizes at least 2 Physical Cores, 8-12GB RAM & 64GB Disk storage that preferably an SSD. 

[Download link for Oracle VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) Select your OS and download installer

[Download link for Linux Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop) ISO File

### Current Set-up

I have Git & MySQL set up on a linux virtual machine hosted on Google Cloud Platform, I chose to host on GCP only because it is the only platform where I can create such a machine only for personal use (free) without limitations. I believe this is the best way to work as you can access the machine from anywhere in the world on any host machine. 

### Commands Used on Linux (Mini Tutorial)

I am going to show you step by step how I installed Git & MySQL on a linux virtual machine using the Terminal.

Install git using apt-get

`sudo apt-get update`

Install git

`sudo apt-get install git`

Read messages and follow promts from the installer.

#### Login to Git
Username

`git config --global user.name "someuser"`

Email

`git config --global user.email "someone@gmail.com"`

#### Quickstart!

Lets clone this repository
`git clone https://github.com/ValrynMilly/BDRepo.git`

List files in current directory

`ls -a`   ls is list ''-a'' is a command for all

Navigate to repository

`cd BDRepo` cd means change directory

Lets make a folder

`mkdir WeekOne` mkdir means Make Directory 

Navigate to folder

`cd WeekOne`

Lets make a .md (markdown) file
You can use 'touch' command to create your files but I use vim as it will create the file and open editor.

`vim BD27012021.md`

to edit the file in the editor press 'I' on the keyboard then start typing in your content, when you are done press escape followed by ':wq' to save and quit.

Lets navigate out of the current folder

`cd ..`

Lets add all content to git staging area

`git add .`

Lets commit our changes

`git commit -m "added BD27012021.md"`

Git Push our files

`git push` use your username & password

#### Lets install MySQL

First update

`sudo apt update`

Install package

`sudo apt install mysql-server`

Install MySQL

`sudo mysql_secure_installation`

Please read and follow instructions given in terminal, you will be guided through installation.




